EN
EUROPEAN QUALIFYING EXAMINATION 2019
Pre-examination
This paper comprises:
*
Instructions for answering the paper and
2019/P/EN/1
marking scheme
*
Legal questions
2019/P/EN/2-11
(Questions 1-10)
*
Claims analysis
2019/P/EN/12-26
(Questions 11-20)
*
Annexes: calendars for 2018 and 2019
2019/P/EN/27-28
 
with indication of days on which at least one 
of the EPO filing offices is not open for the
receipt of documents
2019/P/EN
2-2
Instructions for answering the paper and marking scheme 
1.
The pre-examination is in the form of a multiple choice paper. It comprises 20 
questions in all, 10 questions relating to legal knowledge (questions 1-10) and 10 
questions relating to the analysis of claims (questions 11-20). Questions must be 
answered by filling in the circles on the answer sheet printed on the reverse side of your 
personal cover sheet. The duration of this examination is four hours.
(a)
Each question X has 4 separate statements, namely X.1, X.2, X.3 and X.4. For 
each statement X.1, X.2, X.3 and X.4 candidates must unambiguously indicate on the 
answer sheet whether the statement is true or false. For each statement X.1, X.2, X.3 and 
X.4 only one answer can be given, either true or false. Each statement within a question is 
to be considered independently of the other statements. 
(b)
To indicate that a statement X.1, X.2, X.3 or X.4 is true, the corresponding circle for 
“true” should be filled using a black medium soft HB pencil. To indicate that a statement 
X.1, X.2, X.3 or X.4 is false, the corresponding circle for “false” should be filled using a 
black medium soft HB pencil.
(c)
If, in reply to a statement X.1, X.2, X.3 or X.4, no indication is given as to whether 
the statement is true or false, or if both true and false are indicated, then the answer to this
statement will be deemed not to be correct. Accordingly, if a candidate fills or partly fills a 
circle they do not intend to submit as part of their answer, it is essential that any mark in 
that circle is fully erased. 
(d)
There is no possibility for submitting notes or remarks to the examiner. Any such 
submission will be disregarded. 
2.
Only one answer sheet per candidate will be available.
3.
Marking
(a)
Marks awarded per question
If within one question X, none or only one of the answers to the statements X.1, X.2, X.3 
and X.4 is correct, then 0 marks will be awarded for this question X.
If within one question X, two of the answers to the statements X.1, X.2, X.3 and X.4 are 
correct, then 1 mark will be awarded for this question X.
If within one question X, three of the answers to the statements X.1, X.2, X.3 and X.4 are 
correct, then 3 marks will be awarded for this question X.
If within one question X, all four of the answers to the statements X.1, X.2, X.3 and X.4 are
correct, then 5 marks will be awarded for this question X.
(b)
 Total number of marks awarded 
The total number of marks awarded for the pre-examination is the sum of the marks 
achieved for each question, calculated as stated above.
2019/P/EN/1
Legal questions
Question 1
You are a professional representative before the EPO. Today, 25 February 2019, you 
receive an email from your client, an Italian engineer, Pietro. He wants you to file a 
European patent application EP-P in his name, claiming priority of IT-P, an Italian patent 
application. IT-P was jointly filed in the name of Pietro and Gianna on 23 February 2018. A 
copy of IT-P is attached to the email. No other document or information is sent with the 
email.
For each of the statements 1.1 – 1.4, indicate on the answer sheet whether the statement 
is true or false:
1.1
On the basis of the information given above, you can file today a European patent 
application EP-P, which will be accorded 25 February 2019 as the date of filing, in 
Pietro’s name at the EPO.
1.2
On the basis of the information given above, you can be sure that EP-P can validly 
claim priority from IT-P.
1.3
You can validly file EP-P in Italian.
1.4
Pietro as a natural person is not entitled to a reduction of the filing fee.
2019/P/EN/2
Legal questions
Question 2 
You are a professional representative before the EPO and represent the patent proprietor 
in opposition proceedings. You are summoned to oral proceedings. The language of the 
proceedings is English. The patent proprietor has its headquarters in the USA and has a 
research centre in Portugal. You informed the opposition division in due time that you 
would attend the oral proceedings accompanied by Sarah, the inventor. You have stated 
that Sarah would make oral submissions at the oral proceedings and would explain 
feature X of claim 1. On the day of the oral proceedings you arrive with Sarah, but also 
with Jane and Pedro, whose intention to attend was not previously made known. Jane is a 
US patent agent. Pedro is employed at the research centre in Portugal. The opponent's 
representative is also attending the oral proceedings.
For each of the statements 2.1 – 2.4, indicate on the answer sheet whether the statement 
is true or false:
2.1
You will be allowed to make oral submissions at the oral proceedings.
2.2
As a general rule, Jane will be allowed to make oral submissions at the oral 
proceedings.
2.3
As a general rule, Pedro will be allowed to make oral submissions at the oral 
proceedings.
2.4
If the parties and the opposition division agree, Sarah will be allowed to make oral 
submissions in Portuguese at the oral proceedings.
2019/P/EN/3
Legal questions
Question 3 
Company Z filed a European patent application EP-Z on 30 January 2018, without 
claiming any priority. EP-Z has eleven claims. Alina and Elena are designated as the 
inventors of EP-Z. However, Alina is wrongly designated as an inventor. The EPO drew up 
a search report and a favourable opinion in August 2018. An international application 
PCT-Z was filed in December 2018, validly claiming the priority of EP-Z.
For each of the statements 3.1 – 3.4, indicate on the answer sheet whether the statement 
is true or false:
3.1
The first communication in respect of EP-Z that can be expected from the examining
division is a communication under Rule 71(3) EPC. 
3.2
If you receive a communication under Rule 71(3) EPC for EP-Z in October 2019 and
if you fulfil all the requirements of Rule 71(5) EPC on 31 January 2020, no fees 
other than the grant and publishing fee are due. 
3.3
It is possible to cancel the designation of Alina as an inventor of EP-Z without Alina's
consent. 
3.4
PCT-Z will be deemed to be withdrawn, once a patent is granted on the basis of 
EP-Z. 
2019/P/EN/4
Legal questions
Question 4
Today, 25 February 2019, Didier files a European patent application EP-D with the EPO. 
Didier is resident in Belgium.
For each of the statements 4.1 – 4.4, indicate on the answer sheet whether the statement 
is true or false:
4.1
If Didier files the application in Dutch, he must file a translation into one of the EPO's
official languages within two months of filing the application.
4.2
Didier can pay the search fee in May 2019 provided he requests further processing.
4.3
If Didier does not submit any claims either on filing or within the time limit set by the 
EPO in a communication inviting him to correct this deficiency, Didier can validly 
request further processing and file the claims. 
4.4
To validly file a European patent application, Didier can file a reference to a 
previously filed application, wherein the reference contains (i) the filing date of the 
previous application, (ii) the file number of the previous application, (iii) the office 
where the previous application was filed and (iv) an indication that this reference 
replaces the description and any drawings. 
2019/P/EN/5
Legal questions
Question 5 
Antonia intends to file the following patent applications: 
(1) a European patent application EP-A
(2) an international patent application PCT-AW.
PCT-AW will be jointly filed in the name of Antonia and Werner.
Werner lives in Berlin; Antonia lives in Argentina and is of Argentinian nationality. Argentina
is not a PCT member state. 
For each of the statements 5.1 – 5.4, indicate on the answer sheet whether the statement 
is true or false:
5.1
Antonia can validly file EP-A with the EPO. 
5.2
PCT-AW can be validly filed with the EPO as receiving Office. 
5.3
PCT-AW can be validly filed with the International Bureau as receiving office. 
5.4
If, two months after validly filing PCT-AW, Antonia moves to Berlin, the EPO will 
record in relation to PCT-AW the change of residence, upon request. 
2019/P/EN/6
Legal questions
Question 6 
Company A filed a European patent application EP-AB with the EPO. Company A and 
Company B agreed to transfer European patent application EP-AB to Company B. All 
Contracting States are designated.
For each of the statements 6.1 – 6.4, indicate on the answer sheet whether the statement 
is true or false:
6.1
It is possible to register in the European Patent Register Company A as sole 
applicant for EP-AB for the EPC contracting state Germany and to register 
Company B as sole applicant for EP-AB for all the other EPC contracting states.
6.2
The only conditions for recording the assignment of EP-AB from Company A to 
Company B for all contracting states in the European Patent Register are the 
submission of a written request signed by Company B and the payment of an 
administrative fee.
6.3
The transfer of a European patent application only becomes effective vis-à-vis the 
EPO when it is published in the European Patent Register.
6.4
The transfer of a European patent can be recorded in the European Patent Register 
during the opposition period. 
2019/P/EN/7
Legal questions
Question 7 
Company X has filed a European patent application EP-X before the EPO. Company Y 
has filed a European patent application EP-Y before the EPO. Neither EP-X nor EP-Y 
claim any priority. Company X developed the invention of European patent application 
EP-X in Canada, and Company Y developed the same invention in Germany 
independently of Company X's invention. The filing date of EP-X is before the filing date of 
EP-Y. Both applications claim the same subject-matter and disclose the same invention. 
No other patent applications have been filed by Company X or Company Y.
For each of the statements 7.1 – 7.4, indicate on the answer sheet whether the statement 
is true or false:
7.1 
The right to a European patent on the invention belongs to Company X even if a 
European patent based on EP-Y was granted before the grant of a European patent
based on EP-X.
7.2
The right to a European patent on the invention belongs to Company X even if EP-X
was withdrawn without being published.
7.3
During proceedings before the EPO, Company X and Company Y will inevitably be 
asked to prove their entitlement to exercise the right to their respective European 
patents. 
7.4
Even if EP-X was published after the filing date of EP-Y, EP-X could be validly cited 
as prior art in evaluating the inventive step of EP-Y. 
2019/P/EN/8
Legal questions
Question 8
An applicant receives two notifications from the EPO on 5 February 2019. Both 
notifications are dated 31 January 2019. The first notification relates to the international 
application PCT-S and the second notification relates to European patent application 
EP-S.
For each of the statements 8.1 – 8.4, indicate on the answer sheet whether the statement 
is true or false:
8.1
If a period of one month is set for replying to the notification relating to PCT-S, that 
time limit will expire on 11 March 2019.
8.2
If a period of two months is set for replying to the notification relating to PCT-S, that 
time limit will expire on 9 April 2019.
8.3
The notification relating to EP-S will be deemed to have been delivered on Sunday, 
10 February 2019.
8.4
If a period of four months is set for replying to the notification relating to EP-S, that 
time limit will expire on 10 June 2019.
2019/P/EN/9
Legal questions
Question 9
For each of the statements 9.1 – 9.4, indicate on the answer sheet whether the statement 
is true or false:
In the following case, the EPO will refund at least a part of the respective fee: 
9.1
The examination fee for a European patent application is refunded in full if the 
European patent application is withdrawn before the examining division has 
assumed responsibility for it.
9.2
The opposition fee is refunded in part if the opposition is withdrawn before the notice
of opposition is communicated to the patent proprietor.
9.3
The examination fee for a European patent application is refunded in part if the 
European patent application is withdrawn today, 25 February 2019, which is two 
weeks after receipt of the first invitation under Article 94(3) EPC issued by the 
examining division proper.
9.4
The appeal fee is refunded in full if the appeal is withdrawn before the filing of the 
statement of grounds of appeal and before the period for filing that statement has 
expired.
2019/P/EN/10
Legal questions
Question 10
Hans filed an admissible notice of opposition against European patent EP-H. EP-H was 
validated in all EPC contracting states. EP-H validly claims priority from an earlier patent 
application. In the notice of opposition, Hans raised an objection of lack of inventive step of
claim 1 over the combination of two prior art documents, D1 and D2. While the opposition 
proceedings are pending, Theresa files third-party observations, arguing that claim 1 lacks 
novelty over D3, a German patent application filed before the priority date of EP-H and 
published after that date. 
For each of the statements 10.1 – 10.4, indicate on the answer sheet whether the 
statement is true or false:
10.1
Third parties are entitled to file observations during opposition proceedings.
10.2
If oral proceedings are to be held and the opposition division follows Theresa’s 
objections with regard to novelty, it will also summon Theresa to the oral 
proceedings.
10.3
If the European patent is maintained in amended form, it could contain different 
claims for different designated states.
10.4
If Hans does not file a copy of D1 within the opposition period, the opposition will be 
inadmissible.
2019/P/EN/11