1 
Model solution for part 1 
Question 1: D 
Legal basis 
An incorrect designaƟon of inventor shall be recƟﬁed upon request and only with the 
consent of the wrongly designated person and, where such a request is ﬁled by a third party, 
the consent of the applicant for or proprietor of the patent (R. 21(1) EPC). 
Question 2: A 
Legal basis 
RepresentaƟve X is a representaƟve according to arƟcle 134.1 EPC and is already registered 
as representaƟve for the European patent applicaƟon EP-A, so any registraƟon of change in 
representaƟon by a new European patent atorney necessitates an authorizaƟon for 
representaƟon signed by the applicant to be validly registered by the EPO. 
According to rule 152(1) EPC, The President of the European Patent Oﬃce shall determine 
the cases in which a signed authorizaƟon shall be ﬁled by representaƟves acƟng before the 
European Patent Oﬃce.  
In decision of the President of the EPO of 12.07.2007 on the ﬁling of authorizaƟons (Special 
ediƟon No. 3, OJ EPO 2007, L.1), (2) If the European Patent Oﬃce is informed of a change of 
representaƟve involving professional representaƟves who are not members of the same 
associaƟon, without being noƟﬁed that the previous representaƟve's authorizaƟon has 
terminated, the new representaƟve must ﬁle, together with the noƟﬁcaƟon of his 
appointment, an individual authorizaƟon (original and one copy) or a reference to a general 
authorizaƟon already on ﬁle 
If an authorizaƟon for representaƟon is not provided, any acts done by the “new” 
representaƟve will be deemed to never have occurred by the EPO. R 152(6) 
RepresentaƟve Y shall ﬁle a change in representaƟon with form 5060 to register before the 
EPO as the new representaƟve, an authorizaƟon of representaƟon signed by the applicant 
for the change in representaƟon to be valid and a response to the writen opinion before the 
EPO before: 
Time limit to respond to the negaƟve search opinion: publicaƟon date of the EESR: 12 April 
2023 + 6 months (R 70a(1) + R 70(1) EPC) = 12 October 2023 (Tuesday) 
2 
Question 3: C 
Legal basis 
According to Art. 122 EPC and Rule 136(1) EPC it is possible to obtain re-establishment of 
rights in respect of the priority period (twelve months according to Art. 87(1) EPC). 
A: Rule 136(3) EPC: Further processing is available 
B: Rule 136(3) EPC: Further processing is available 
D: ArƟcle 122(4) EPC Re-establishment of rights shall be ruled out in respect of the Ɵme limit 
for requesƟng re-establishment of rights 
Question 4: B 
Legal basis 
Rule 90.4(d) PCT 
Subject to paragraph (e), any receiving Oﬃce, any InternaƟonal Searching Authority, any 
Authority competent to carry out supplementary searches, any InternaƟonal Preliminary 
Examining Authority and the InternaƟonal Bureau may waive the requirement under 
paragraph (b) that a separate power of atorney be submited to it, in which case paragraph 
(c) shall not apply.
Question 5: D 
Legal basis 
Art. 14(4) EPC: “Natural or legal persons having their residence or principal place of business 
within a ContracƟng State having a language other than English, French or German as an 
oﬃcial language, and naƟonals of that State who are resident abroad, may ﬁle documents 
which have to be ﬁled within a Ɵme limit in an oﬃcial language of that State.” 
ArƟcle 14(1) RFees: 30% reducƟon of the applicaƟon fee; Rule 6 RFees 
A-X, 9.2.1; A-X, 9.2.2
A-X, 9.2.1 CondiƟons - Guidelines for ExaminaƟon (epo.org)
A-X, 9.2.2 ReducƟon of the ﬁling fee - Guidelines for ExaminaƟon (epo.org)
NoƟce from the EPO dated 10 January 2014 concerning amended Rule 6 EPC and ArƟcle 
14(1) RFees (EPO - NoƟce from the EPO dated 10 January 2014 concerning amended Rule 6 
EPC and ArƟcle 14(1) RFees) 
A. Not correct (Andorra is not an EPC contracƟng state); Art. 14(4) EPC relates to the 
applicant and not to his representaƟve)
3 
 
B. Not correct (the German company is not considered as SME – R. 6(4)a, R. 6(7) // NoƟce 
from the EPO dated 10 January 2014 concerning amended Rule 6 EPC and Art. 14(1) RFEES) 
C. Not correct (French is an oﬃcial language of the EPO Art. 14(1) EPC) 
D. Correct (applicant of an EPC contracƟng state with resident abroad; Italian is oﬃcial 
language of Switzerland; natural person is enƟtled to the reducƟon) 
 
 
Question 6: D 
 
Legal basis 
R36(2), R135(2) EPC 
The English translaƟon of the applicaƟon documents must be ﬁled within 2 months of ﬁling 
the DA. 
If the English translaƟon is not ﬁled: The EPO will issue a communicaƟon pursuant to Rule 58 
EPC seƫng a Ɵme limit of further 2 months for ﬁling the translaƟon.  
If the English translaƟon is not ﬁled within the Ɵme limit set by the communicaƟon pursuant 
Rule 58 EPC: a loss of rights communicaƟon is issued: further processing is ruled out for the 
missing 2-month Ɵme limit of Rule 58 EPC -> re-establishment of rights. 
 
 
Question 7: C 
 
Legal basis 
 
Art 86 EPC, Rule 51 EPC, Art 141 EPC 
 
Due date of the renewal fee: 30 November 2023 = aŌer grant of the patent renewal fee 
must be paid to the naƟonal oﬃces. 
Time limit: 2 months of publicaƟon of grant in the European Patent BulleƟn: 8 January 2014 
 
 
Question 8: B 
 
Legal basis 
 
Guidelines D-VI, 7.2.3 
 
A: incorrect because of the enƟre descripƟon 
B: correct 
C: incorrect; the invitaƟon is not issued together with the interlocutory decision, but aŌer 
the interlocutory decision has become ﬁnal and can no longer be appealed 
D: incorrect: 3 months is correct Rule 82(2) EPC 
4 
Question 9: D 
Legal basis 
R 91.2 PCT: the Ɵme limit for ﬁling a request for recƟﬁcaƟon of an obvious mistake is 26 
months from the earliest priority date 
Question 10: C (the most correct answer), D (also possible) 
Legal basis 
Art. 121(1) (2), Rule 135(1) and (3) EPC, Art. 2(1), item 12 RFees 
Guidelines for ExaminaƟon E-VIII, 2 (Further processing) and E-VIII, 3.1.3 
E-IX, 2.3.1 (RepresentaƟon, address for correspondence)
Comment: 
A good paralegal will perform all acts of C, including the appointment of the representative. 
However, formally/grammatically D can also be considered as a correct answer to the 
question, because the appointment of the professional representative can be done later (if 
the translation is supplied and the fees are paid, but no professional representative has been 
appointed, the JP applicant may be invited to appoint a professional representative under R 
163(5) EPC. The procedural acts of requesting examination and filing the translation could 
also be considered as unsigned documents, because the JP applicant is not entitled to 
sign.  He might receive an invitation under R 50(3) EPC to supply a missing signature, which 
can be fulfilled by appointing a professional representative. 
Question 11: B 
Legal basis 
Guide for applicants: PCT procedure before the EPO (Euro-PCT Guide) – 5.4 Amending the 
applicaƟon – Rule 161/162 communicaƟon  
Guidelines for examinaƟon 
GL E-IX, 2.1.1 (2.1.1 Requirements for entry into the European phase (epo.org)) 
E-IX, 3.3.1 (htps://www.epo.org/law-pracƟce/legal-
texts/html/guidelines/e/e_ix_3_3_1.htm)
5 
 
“A reply to the communicaƟon under Rule 161(1) may not be necessary … If the applicant 
ﬁled amendments according to Art. 19 and/or 34 PCT in the internaƟonal phase, and if the 
EPO prepared the WO-ISA or SISR but no IPER (either because the applicant did not demand 
PCT Chapter II or because the IPEA was an oﬃce other than the EPO), then these 
amendments are considered to consƟtute a response to the WO-ISA or SISR, provided that 
the applicant has indicated on entry into the European phase that these amendments are 
maintained…” 
 
 
Question 12: C 
 
Legal basis 
 
ExplanaƟon: Applicant’s Guide – MX – Annex C – Receiving Oﬃce 
PCT Applicant's Guide Mexico - Valid as from 13 Apr 2023 (wipo.int) 
Competent InternaƟonal Searching Authority: 
 AT, CL, EP, ES, KR, SE, SG, US 
Competent InternaƟonal Preliminary Examining Authority: 
 AT, CL*, EP**, ES, KR, SE, SG*, US* 
 * 
The Oﬃce is competent only if the internaƟonal search is or has been carried out by that 
Oﬃce. 
 ** The Oﬃce is competent only if the internaƟonal search is or has been carried out by that 
Oﬃce, the Austrian Patent Oﬃce, the Spanish Patent and Trademark Oﬃce or the Swedish 
Intellectual Property Oﬃce (PRV). 
 
 
Question 13: A 
 
Legal basis 
 
PCT Rule 26bis.1(a), staƟng: 
 “The applicant may correct a priority claim or add a priority claim to the request by a noƟce 
submited to the receiving Oﬃce or the InternaƟonal Bureau within a Ɵme limit of 16 
months from the priority date or, where the correcƟon or addiƟon would cause a change in 
the priority date, 16 months from the priority date as so changed, whichever 16-month 
period expires ﬁrst, provided that such a noƟce may be submited unƟl the expiraƟon of four 
months from the internaƟonal ﬁling date.” 
 
 
 
 
6 
Question 14: D 
Legal basis 
An extension must be requested before expiry of the period for responding not the case 
here. 
Further processing is only available to applicants (and thus before grant). 
The non-observance of the Ɵme limit to ﬁle comments does not have the direct consequence 
demanded for re-establishment of rights in Art 122(1). [see G1/90]  
Therefore, only D can be correct, and the Board will exercise its discreƟon. The 
Opponent/Respondent should thus submit reasons for submiƫng them late. 
Question 15: B 
Legal basis 
Guidelines, E-Vii.1.5 Concerning renewal fees falling due during the period of interrupƟon, 
Rule 142(4) has to be interpreted as deferring the due date for their payment unƟl the date 
the proceedings are resumed (J 902/87). Thus, such renewal fees may be paid without 
addiƟonal fee at the date of resumpƟon and in the amounts applicable on that date. They 
may also be paid within six months of said date, provided that an addiƟonal fee is also paid 
within said period (Rule 51(2)). 
